---
layout: post
title:  "temp name"
date:   2022-10-18
author: Zayne Kirkham
description: FIXME ADD DESCRIPTION / Title / Blog Image
image: /assets/images/blog-image.jpg
---





For this assignment, you need to gather a data on a topic that is of interest to you.  Your dataset should be original, meaning that you assemble it through a data API and/or web scraping (requests/BeautifulSoup - other scraping packages are ok too).  You should do the majority of your work in python (unless you have specifically discussed your project with and obtained permission from Dr. Tass).  

See the "Content" --> "Blog Rubrics" page for examples and grading criteria.  

REQUIREMENTS:

DATASET: 

Your dataset should: 

Be an original dataset that you have curated
Be on a topic of interest (to you at least) and not overly trivial
Have at minimum 200 observations and 5 features (variables) 
Should be substantial enough to have a thorough exploratory data analysis applied (subject of the next blog post)
GITHUB REPO:

You should create a GitHub repository with your code and hopefully your dataset (see caveats below in item #4):

Include a README.md file that explains the contents of the repo.
The code in the repo should be neat and well documented.  Likely this won't be the "first draft" of your code.
DO NOT include any private API keys in your code or elsewhere in the repo.
If possible, include your dataset in the repo. 
Do not include the data if it violates the any terms and conditions of the API (for example, Twitter won't allow you to make the full data public, but you can publish Tweet IDs).  
Do not include the dataset if it is too large for GitHub
If you have any concerns about the privacy of your data or other concerns about publishing your data, please discuss them with Dr. Tass
BLOG POST

You should write a blog post that discusses your project.  Please keep in mind the following:

You need to include some information about how you determined that it was ethical / allowable to get the data that you gathered and/or how you implemented good scraping practice.
Keep in mind the principles of good blogging (easy to read, images and figures to enhance, relevant and interesting, etc.)
Resist the temptation to write a "log" of everything you did and/or went through to gather your data.  Include just enough information so that someone else can learn from what you did and possibly gather similar data
Have an introduction that motivates your project choice
Have a conclusion that leaves the reader excited for your next blog post where you will do an exploratory data analysis (EDA) of your data.
Include a link to your GitHub repo


